All right.
Let's get to our first step of building our secure password checker now in here.
I have a check my pass DOT pie file.
You can do the same.
And then I have my terminal right over here.
What we want to do is initially import the Requests module.
If you haven't.
Well then you can install the request module the request module is going to allow us to make a request.
So remember it's kind of like having a browser without while the actual browser.
We can just manually request something as if we have a browser and we get some data back.
So the way we can actually use their request module with the password API is that we can have the password
API U.R.L. which I'll just tell you what it is.
It's a s calling slash slash API dot pound passwords
and then we give it a range Slash.
And in here this is where we give it the password so we can just do plus and let's just for now do password
1 2 3 so that's the you are all that we're going to use to make this a little bit smaller like that.
Now in here we're going to get a response by doing the requests dot get and let's just type this in
and see what happens if I save and run this program.
And remember we don't have the ability to type in the passwords yet.
So let's just run the file.
All right.
So we get something but it looks like an error and that's because I did HDD CBS silly me.
But again I want to show you that.
Yeah right here I'm able to read the errors and it looks like it it's an invalid schema no connection
adapter for while a TDD B.S. So if we run that again all right.
It looks like it worked.
No errors.
But let's print this out to see why we get so print response and I'm going to run this and we got response
four hundred now a response or 400 is not good.
Usually that means on authorized or something's not right with the API.
Now these are response codes are something we'll get into and the web development section of the course.
But it just means that for hundreds not good.
We want to response of two hundred two hundred means.
OK.
And the reason this happens is because this is not how the API actually works.
You see here we just gave it a password.
But the way that this API works is it uses something called hashing.
Now what does that mean.
I'm going to include a bonus lesson after this one so that you can learn a little bit more about hashing
but I have here this Web site that I'm going to link to.
Then let's make this a little bit bigger.
Hopefully I can see it's a sha 1 hash generator now hashing a password.
It's something that you should always do.
Let's say you're saving a user's password to a database.
You should never store a user's password in what we call plaintext.
That is exactly what the password is.
Instead we want to do something called hash it that is.
Run it through a hashing algorithm to make it gibberish.
So when I do password one two three here and I click generate and I scroll down.
This is the hashed password.
Notice here that as I change this password this changes as well but the key here and this is something
that we'll talk about in that bonus video is that hashing is a one way function.
So there's many different hashing algorithms.
There's empty files there's SHA 256.
We're using SHA 1 because this is what this API is using and SHA 1 essentially just hashes it's a an
algorithm that is a function that does this gibberish output of password 1 2 3.
But no matter how many times we generate password 1 2 3 it's always going to be the same hash so this
way we can actually check if somebody types a password and we already have the hashed version of a password
and let's say a database we can actually compare the hashed version of this password to the database
hashed password again don't get too confused here hopefully in that bonus video we'll cover this a little
bit more but the key thing is that this API because we want to be as secure as possible is well we don't
want to send over the wire our real password.
Instead we want to send this hashed version of our password.
So if I copy this and put it over here this is what we should be sending to the API but here's the problem.
This is still not super secure because anybody can come now and type in and keep guessing keep guessing
keep guessing and eventually hit on password one two three and see oh this hash is the exact same one
as this hash.
So they will know that this is our password.
So this API uses a technique called Kate anonymity.
And this is actually a modern technique that big companies like Google Facebook Netflix Amazon all use
k anonymity allows somebody to receive information about us yet still not know who we are.
How does this work.
By the way this is actually a technique that is used a lot especially now where using personal data
for companies it's frowned upon.
So ideally you don't want to give your personal information to companies.
So some companies that care about security and privacy use this K anonymity to track you but still not
know who you are.
Now the way this works is that we only give the first five characters of our hash password.
So one two three four five.
So if I remove this what this API is going to do is it has a list of all the passwords that have been
leaked.
However although these passwords are hashed with these SHA 1 algorithm.
So it's going to look in its database of all these passwords and pick all the hashed passwords that
have the first five characters that match this.
So this way with a response we're going to get all the passwords that are hashed that have this so that
on our end when we receive that response we can check the rest of the hash function this way.
This API is never going to know our full hash and therefore never ever be able to guess our password
they'll just know that we have this tiny bit of a hash function that can match any hundreds of passwords.
How cool is that.
So if I actually say this and run I get a response of 200 awesome all right.
Let's take a break.
Learn a little bit more about hashing and see you in the next video by.